?What is the last step in Kotter's approach to change management?
Consolidate gains and produce more wins
X Anchor new approaches in the culture
Sustain and improve
Generate short-term wins


In the Program Kanban some steps have Work-in-Process limits. Why is this necessary?
To enable multitasking
To keep timebox goals 
X To ensure large queues are not being built
To help continuous deployment

What is the recommended way to express a Feature?
Functional requirement
Epic hypothesis statement
X Phrase, benefit hypothesis, and acceptance criteria
Lean business case

Which statement accurately characterizes Strategic Themes?
X They are business objectives that connect the SAFe Portfolio to the Enterprise business strategy
They are a high-level summary of each program’s Vision and are updated after every PI
They are requirements that span Agile Release Trains but must fit within a single Program Increment
They are large initiatives managed in the Portfolio Kanban that require Weighted Shortest Job First prioritization and a lightweight business case

When does a Roadmap become a queue?
When it contains Features and not Epics
When it is fully committed
X When it is longer than one Program Increment
When it includes no commitments

What can be used to map the current state of a portfolio?
Portfolio Backlog
Portfolio Kanban
Portfolio Vision
X Portfolio Canvas

Which statement is a principle of the Agile manifesto?
Respect for people and culture
Measure everything
Visualize and limit WIP, reduce batch sizes, and manage queue lengths
X Simplicity--the art of maximizing the amount of work not done--is essential

What is found on a program board?
User Stories
Tasks
Epics
X Features

On day two of PI Planning, management presents adjustments based on the previous day's management review and problem solving meeting. What is one possible type of adjustment they could make? --------------
X Business priorities 
Adjustment to PI Objectives ??
Change a team’s plan
User Stories


What is part of the role of Product Management?
To assign business value to features
X To prioritize the Program Backlog  
To facilitate backlog refinement session
To prioritize Enablers



What is one guardrail on Lean budget spend?
Participatory budgeting
Spending caps for each ART
Learning milestones as objective measurements
X Continuous Business Owner engagement


How is the flow of Portfolio Epics managed?
X In the Portfolio Kanban
In the Program Kanban
In the Portfolio Backlog
In the Program Backlog


What is one benefit of unlocking the intrinsic motivation of knowledge workers?
To lower WIP limits
X To provide autonomy with purpose, mission, and minimum constraints
To strive to achieve a state of continuous flow
To centralize decision-making

What is considered an anti-pattern when assigning business values to Team PI Objectives?
Business Owners assign high values to important enabler work
Assigning business values to stretch objectives
Business Owners assigning the business value
X A value of 10 given to all of the PI Objectives

The House of Lean is a classic metaphor describing the mindset essential for Lean thinking. Which one of the four pillars advocates a "Get out of the office" mindset?
Flow
Relentless improvement
Respect for people and culture
X Innovation

How are stories estimated in SAFe?
Agile prescribes a No Estimation concept to speed delivery
X Story points
Ideal time
Feature points


What is the foundation of the SAFe House of Lean?
X Leadership
Relentless Improvement
Value
Flow


Who has content authority to make decisions at the user story level during PI Planning?
Scrum Masters
X Product Owner
Release Train Engineer
Development Team

What is a valid reason for moving a PI objective to stretch?  --------------
The team has high uncertainty about a third-party delivery needed for the objective ??
The team is unsure how to estimate the related stories using story points
X The team does not have the knowledge or skills to deliver the objective
The team has no more time in the capacity but the objective has high business value

Which practice helps with a test-first mentality?
WIP
MMF
MVP
X BDD

What are the last three steps of the SAFe Implementation Roadmap?
Launch an Agile Release Train, extend to the portfolio, accelerate
Launch trains, coach Agile Release Train execution, train executives and managers
Train Lean-Agile change agents, identify value streams and Agile Release Trains, extend to the portfolio
X Launch more Agile Release Trains and Value Streams, extend to the portfolio, sustain and improve

What is a Minimal Viable Product?
X A minimal product that can validate a hypothesis
A minimal product that can be built to achieve market dominance
A minimal story a team can deliver in an iteration
A minimal Feature that can be released to the market

Which statement is true about DevOps?
X DevOps is an approach to bridge the gap between development and operations
Measurements are not a top priority for DevOps
DevOps automation of testing reduces the holding cost
Lean-Agile principles are not necessary for a successful DevOps implementation

Who is responsible for the Solution Backlog?
Solution Train Engineer
Product Owners
Product Management
X Solution Management

What is one of the Agile Release Train sync meetings?
Iteration Retrospective
Iteration Review
X Scrum of Scrums
Solution Demo


What is one component of the Continuous Delivery Pipeline?
Continuous Planning
X Continuous Exploration
Continuous Cadence
Continuous Improvement

Which statement describes aspects of the team's commitment during PI Planning? -----------
A team commits to all the features they put on the Program Board
X A team does not commit to stretch objectives
A team commits to all stories they put on their PI plan ??
A team commits only to the PI Objectives with the highest business value


What is the best measure of progress for complex system development?
X System Demo
ROAMing Risks
Refined Backlog
Iteration Review

Which statement fits with the SAFe Core Value of Built-in Quality?
Quality depends on the scale of the project and should be implemented from the top down ???????
X You cannot scale crappy code
Quality should only be worked on during the Innovation and Planning Iteration
Quality is not part of the SAFe Core Values


What is the biggest benefit of decentralized decision-making? --------------
X Ensuring strategic decisions are not made in a vacuum
Delivering value in the shortest sustainable lead time
Creating better visualization
Removing accountability from leaders

Product Management has content authority over the Program Backlog. What do Product Owners have content authority over?
Portfolio Backlog
X Team Backlog
Value Streams
Portfolio Vision

Which core competency of the Lean Enterprise helps drive built-in quality practices?
Business Solutions and Lean Systems Engineering
Lean Portfolio Management
DevOps and Release on Demand
X Team and Technical Agility


What can be used as a template for putting SAFe into practice within an organization?
X SAFe Implementation Roadmap
SAFe Core Values
SAFe Principles
SAFe House of Lean


What must management do for a successful Agile transformation?
Change Scrum Masters in the team every two weeks
Send someone to represent management, and then delegate tasks to these individuals
X Commit to quality and be the change agent in the system
Strive to think of adoption as an area they can control

The Agile Release Train uses which type of teams to get work done?
X Cross-functional teams
Management teams
Solution teams
Phased review process teams

When is a Pre-PI Planning event needed?
When Product Owners and Scrum Masters need to coordinate dependencies within the Agile Release Train
X When multiple Agile Release Trains working on the same Solution need to align and coordinate
When teams cannot identify and estimate Stories in PI Planning and need more time to prepare ????????
When there is only one day to run PI Planning, so more time is needed to prepare to run it effectively

Which is an aspect of system thinking?
Cadence makes routine that which is routine
X Optimizing a component does not optimize the system
Mastery drives intrinsic motivation
The length of the queue impact the wait time

Which statement is true about the Innovation and Planning (IP) Iteration?
The Scrum Master can decide if the IP Iteration is necessary
It is used annually when the team needs to refocus on work processes
It is used as a weekly sync point between the Scrum Masters
X Without the IP Iteration, there is a risk that the tyranny of the urgent outweighs all innovation activities


Which statement is true when continuously deploying using a DevOps model?
It increases the transaction cost
It alleviates the reliance on the skill sets of Agile teams
It removes the need to automate processes
X It lessens the severity and frequency of release failures

When basing decisions on economics, how are lead time, product cost, value, and development expense used? ------------
To recover money already spent
X To identify different parameters of the economic framework
To take into account sunk costs
To limit WIP through the system

What is an example of applying cadence-based synchronization in SAFe? ---------------------
Teams allow batch sizes across multiple intervals
Teams decide their own iteration length
X Teams align their iterations to the same schedule to support communication, coordination, and system integration 
Teams meet twice every PI to plan and schedule capacity

What are the three primary keys to implementing flow? (Choose three.)You have reached the max number of allowed answers
X Reduce the batch sizes of work
Frequent context switching
Increase capacity
X Manage queue lengths
X Visualize and limit WIP
Address the systemic problems


Which statement is a value from the Agile Manifesto?
Customer collaboration over a constant indefinite pace
Customer collaboration over ongoing internal conversation
Customer collaboration over feature negotiation
X Customer collaboration over contract negotiation

What is the recommended frequency for updating Lean budget distribution? -------------
X On demand 
Twice annually
Annually
Every iteration

What is SAFe’s release strategy?
Release on cadence
Release continuously
Release every Program Increment
X Release on demand

Question
What must management do for a successful Agile transformation?	Commit to quality and be the change agent in the system
Question
How does SAFe provide a second operating system that enables Business Agility?	By focusing on customers, products, innovation, and growth
Question
What is Business Agility?	The ability to compete and thrive in the digital age by quickly responding to market changes and emerging opportunities with innovative business Solutions.
Question
What are the last three steps of the SAFe Implementation Roadmap?	Launch more Agile Release Trains and Value Streams, extend to the portfolio, accelerate
Question
What can be used as a template for putting SAFe into practice within an organization?	SAFe Implementation Roadmap
Question
Which of the core competencies of the Lean Enterprise helps align strategy and execution?	Lean Portfolio Management
Question
What is the foundation of the SAFe House of Lean?	Leadership
Question
The House of Lean is a classic metaphor describing the mindset essential for Lean thinking. Which one of the four pillars advocates a 'Go See' mindset?	??? (WRONG Relentless improvement) (Flow wrong)
Question
Which statement fits with the SAFe Core Value of Built-in Quality?	You cannot scale crappy code
Question
Which statement is a value from the Agile Manifesto? ??? WRONG->	Build incrementally with fast, integrated learning cycles
Question
Which statement is a principle of the Agile Manifesto?	Simplicity–the art of maximizing the amount of work not done–is essential
Question
When basing decisions on economics, how are lead time, product cost, value, and development expense used?	To identify different parameters of the economic framework
Question
Which is an aspect of systems thinking?	Optimizing a component does not optimize the system
Question
What are the three primary keys to implementing flow? (Choose three.)	Manage queue lengths;Reduce the batch sizes of work;Visualize and limit work in process (WIP);
Question
What is an example of applying cadence-based synchronization in SAFe?	??? WRONG -> Teams meet twice every Program Increment (PI) to plan and schedule capacity
Question
What is one benefit of unlocking the intrinsic motivation of knowledge workers?	To provide autonomy with purpose, mission, and minimum constraints
Question
What is the biggest benefit of decentralized decision-making?	Delivering value in the shortest sustainable lead time
Question
What is the basic building block when organizing around value?	Agile Teams
Question
What is one issue when organizing around hierarchical functions?	It is not how value flows
Question
The Agile Release Train uses which type of teams to get work done?	Cross-functional teams
Question
Product Management has content authority over the Program Backlog. What do Product Owners have content authority over?	Team Backlog
Question
What is part of the role of Product Management?	To prioritize the Program Backlog
Question
Which two quality practices apply to Agile teams? (Choose two.)	Peer review and pairing;Establishing flow;
Question
Design Thinking identifies at least four new ways to measure success. What are two of those ways? (Choose two.)	Sustainability;Desirability;
Question
What is the impact of Customer Centricity?	To understand the Customer's needs
Question
Which statement correctly describes one aspect of the team's commitment at the end of PI Planning?	A team does not commit to uncommitted objectives
Question
Which two statements are true about uncommitted objectives? (Choose two.) Uncommitted objectives are not included in the team's commitment;Uncommitted objectives help improve predictability;
Question
What is considered an anti-pattern when assigning business values to team PI Objectives?	All PI Objectives are given a value of 10
Question
On day two of PI Planning, management presents adjustments based on the previous day's management review and problem solving meeting. What is one possible type of adjustment they could make?	Adjust business priorities
Question
What is found on a program board?	Features
Question
Who has content authority to make decisions at the User Story level during Program Increment (PI) Planning?	Product Owner
Question
In the Program Kanban some steps have work in process (WIP) limits. Why is this necessary?	To ensure large queues are not being built
Question
What is one of the Agile Release Train sync meetings?	Scrum of scrums
Question
Which statement is true about the Innovation and Planning (IP) Iteration?	Without the IP Iteration, there is a risk that the 'tyranny of the urgent' outweighs all innovation activities
Question
What is one component of the Continuous Delivery Pipeline?	Continuous Exploration
Question
Which statement is true about DevOps?	DevOps is an approach to bridge the gap between development and operations
Question
If a program repeatedly shows separate Feature branches rather than a true System Demo, which practice should be reviewed to address the issue?	Continuous Integration
Question
What is the best measure of progress for complex system development?	System Demo
Question
What is used to capture the current state of the Portfolio and a primer to the future state?	Portfolio Canvas
Question
Which statement accurately characterizes Strategic Themes?	They are business objectives that connect the SAFe portfolio to the Enterprise business strategy
Question
What is a minimum viable product? A minimal version of a new product used to test a hypothesis
Question
How is the flow of Portfolio Epics managed?	In the Portfolio Kanban
Question
What is one Guardrail on Lean Budget spend?	Continuous Business Owner engagement
Question
What is the last step in Kotter's approach to change management?	Anchor new approaches in the culture
Question
What can be used to script the change to SAFe?	The Implementation Roadmap
Question
Which operating system does SAFe represent? The network
Business agility requires that only software teams use Lean and Agile practices to continually deliver innovative, high-quality products and services faster than the competition. False
Question
What is business agility? The ability to compete and thrive in the digital age by quickly responding to market changes and emerging opportunities with innovative business solutions. 
Question
Essential Level? Provides the minimal elements necessary to be successful with Safe
Question
Large Solution Level? Is used for building complex solutions that require coordination across hundreds of people
Question
Portfolio Level? Align strategy with execution and organizes solution deveplopment around the flow of value
Question
Spanning Plaette? Contains various roles and artifacs that may apply to one or more levels of Safe
Question
Core Competencies? A set of realted knowledge, skills, events, and behaviours which enable agility
Question
Foundation? Principles, values, mindset, leadershop roles, and implemenation guidance to drive change
Question
What are the 10 Critical ART Success Factors? The minimum set of elements required to successfully deploy SAFe across teams of teams
Question
What are core competencies? A set of related knowledge, skills, events, and behaviour, which together enable organizations to achieve bussiness agility
Question
What is the Scaled Agile Framework (SAFe)? The world`s leading framework for scaling Agile across the enterprise that provides a knowledge base of proven, integrated principles and practies to support enterprise agility
Question
Which configuration of SAFe® provides the minimal elements necessary to be successful with SAFe®? Essential
